---
title: "Quadric Arrangement in Classifying Rigid Motions of a 3D Digital Image"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2016-09-09-quadric-arrangement-in-classifying-rigid-motions-of-a-3d-digital-image 
excerpt: '
**Author(s):** K. Pluta, G. Moroz, Y. Kenmochi, P. Romon


**Abstract:** Rigid motions are fundamental operations in image processing. While bijective and
isometric in $$\mathbb{R}^3$$, they lose these properties when digitized in $$\mathbb{Z}^3$$. To
understand how the digitization of 3D rigid motions affects the topology and geometry of a chosen
image patch, we classify the rigid motions according to their effect on the image patch. This
classification can be described by an arrangement of hypersurfaces in the parameter space of 3D
rigid motions of dimension six. However, its high dimensionality and the existence of degenerate
cases make a direct application of classical techniques, such as cylindrical algebraic decomposition
or critical point method, difficult. We show that this problem can be first reduced to computing
sample points in an arrangement of quadrics in the 3D parameter space of rotations. Then we recover
information about remaining three parameters of translation. We implemented an ad-hoc variant of
state-of-the-art algorithms and applied it to an image patch of cardinality 7. This leads to an
arrangement of 81 quadrics and we recovered the classification in less than one hour on a machine
equipped with 40 cores. 


**File(s)**: [**Pre-print (PDF)**](../files/CASC16_SUB_HAL.pdf), [**BibTeX**](../files/CASC16.bib),
[**Errata (2017-06-06)**](../files/CASC16_ERRATA.pdf)' 
date: 2016-09-09
venue: 'CASC'
citation: 'Pluta K., Moroz G., Kenmochi Y., Romon P. (2016) Quadric Arrangement in Classifying Rigid
Motions of a 3D Digital Image. In: Gerdt V., Koepf W., Seiler W., Vorozhtsov E. (eds) Computer
Algebra in Scientific Computing. CASC 2016. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol 9890. Springer,
doi:10.1007/978-3-319-45641-6_27' 
---
**Author(s):** K. Pluta, G. Moroz, Y. Kenmochi, P. Romon


**Abstract:** Rigid motions are fundamental operations in image processing. While bijective and
isometric in $$\mathbb{R}^3$$, they lose these properties when digitized in $$\mathbb{Z}^3$$. To
understand how the digitization of 3D rigid motions affects the topology and geometry of a chosen
image patch, we classify the rigid motions according to their effect on the image patch. This
classification can be described by an arrangement of hypersurfaces in the parameter space of 3D
rigid motions of dimension six. However, its high dimensionality and the existence of degenerate
cases make a direct application of classical techniques, such as cylindrical algebraic decomposition
or critical point method, difficult. We show that this problem can be first reduced to computing
sample points in an arrangement of quadrics in the 3D parameter space of rotations. Then we recover
information about remaining three parameters of translation. We implemented an ad-hoc variant of
state-of-the-art algorithms and applied it to an image patch of cardinality 7. This leads to an
arrangement of 81 quadrics and we recovered the classification in less than one hour on a machine
equipped with 40 cores. 


**File(s)**: [**Pre-print (PDF)**](../files/CASC16_SUB_HAL.pdf), [**BibTeX**](../files/CASC16.bib),
[**Errata (2017-06-06)**](../files/CASC16_ERRATA.pdf)
