---
title: "Rigid Motions on Discrete Spaces"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2017-11-16-rigid-motions-on-discrete-spaces
excerpt: '
**Author(s):** K. Pluta


**Abstract:**  In digital geometry, Euclidean objects are represented by their
discrete approximations, e.g. subsets of the lattice of integers. Rigid motions
of such sets have to be defined as maps from and onto a given discrete space.
One way to design such motions is to combine continuous rigid motions defined on
Euclidean space with a digitization operator. However, digitized rigid motions
often no longer satisfy properties of their continuous siblings. Indeed, due to
digitization, such transformations do not preserve distances, while bijectivity
and point connectivity are generally lost. In the context of 2D discrete spaces,
we study digitized rigid motions on the lattices of Gaussian and Eisenstein
integers. We characterize bijective digitized rigid motions on the integer
lattice, and bijective digitized rotations on the regular hexagonal lattice.
Also, we compare the information loss induced by non-bijective digitized rigid
motions defined on both lattices. Yet, for practical applications, the relevant
information is not global bijectivity, but bijectivity of a digitized rigid
motion restricted to a given finite subset of a lattice. We propose two
algorithms testing that condition for subsets of the integer lattice, and a
third algorithm providing optimal angle intervals that preserve this restricted
bijectivity. We then focus on digitized rigid motions on the 3D integer lattice.
First, we study at a local scale geometric and topological defects induced by
digitized rigid motions. Such an analysis consists of generating all the images
of a finite digital set under digitized rigid motions. This problem amounts to
computing an arrangement of hypersurfaces in a 6D parameter space. The
dimensionality and degenerate cases make the problem practically unsolvable for
state-of-the-art techniques. We propose an ad hoc solution, which mainly relies
on parameter uncoupling, and an algorithm for computing sample points of 3D
connected components in an arrangement of second degree polynomials. Finally, we
focus on the open problem of determining whether a 3D digitized rotation is
bijective. In our approach, we explore arithmetic properties of Lipschitz
quaternions. This leads to an algorithm which answers whether a given digitized
rotation—related to a Lipschitz quaternion—is bijective. 


**File:**
[**TEL public repository**](https://tel.archives-ouvertes.fr/tel-01704791)'
date: 2017-11-16
venue: 'UPE' 
citation: 'Pluta K.: Discrete Spaces on Discrete Spaces.
PhD Thesis, University Paris-Est, 2017' 
---
**Author(s):** K. Pluta


**Abstract:**  In digital geometry, Euclidean objects are represented by their
discrete approximations, e.g. subsets of the lattice of integers. Rigid motions
of such sets have to be defined as maps from and onto a given discrete space.
One way to design such motions is to combine continuous rigid motions defined on
Euclidean space with a digitization operator. However, digitized rigid motions
often no longer satisfy properties of their continuous siblings. Indeed, due to
digitization, such transformations do not preserve distances, while bijectivity
and point connectivity are generally lost. In the context of 2D discrete spaces,
we study digitized rigid motions on the lattices of Gaussian and Eisenstein
integers. We characterize bijective digitized rigid motions on the integer
lattice, and bijective digitized rotations on the regular hexagonal lattice.
Also, we compare the information loss induced by non-bijective digitized rigid
motions defined on both lattices. Yet, for practical applications, the relevant
information is not global bijectivity, but bijectivity of a digitized rigid
motion restricted to a given finite subset of a lattice. We propose two
algorithms testing that condition for subsets of the integer lattice, and a
third algorithm providing optimal angle intervals that preserve this restricted
bijectivity. We then focus on digitized rigid motions on the 3D integer lattice.
First, we study at a local scale geometric and topological defects induced by
digitized rigid motions. Such an analysis consists of generating all the images
of a finite digital set under digitized rigid motions. This problem amounts to
computing an arrangement of hypersurfaces in a 6D parameter space. The
dimensionality and degenerate cases make the problem practically unsolvable for
state-of-the-art techniques. We propose an ad hoc solution, which mainly relies
on parameter uncoupling, and an algorithm for computing sample points of 3D
connected components in an arrangement of second degree polynomials. Finally, we
focus on the open problem of determining whether a 3D digitized rotation is
bijective. In our approach, we explore arithmetic properties of Lipschitz
quaternions. This leads to an algorithm which answers whether a given digitized
rotation—related to a Lipschitz quaternion—is bijective. 

**File:**
[**TEL public repository**](https://tel.archives-ouvertes.fr/tel-01704791)



